'''Airlink101 AR670W'''

== Hardware ==
=== Serial Port ===
This model has a populated 5-pin header that exposes a serial port. Pin 2 is not present in the header. The pins are listed below:
||Pin 1||Rx||
||Pin 2||ABSENT||
||Pin 3||3.3V||
||Pin 4||GND||
||Pin 5||Tx||

If this doesn't work try to swap Tx and Rx.

Serial port settings are:

57600 8N1

Hardware Flow Control : No

Software Flow Control : No

== Firmware ==
=== Details ===
The bootloader is U-Boot. Firmware is GPL, available at http://airlink101.com/gpl/ar670w -- As of this writing you must use fixgz to repair the corrupted archive that was transfered in ASCII mode.

Version 1.00 is apparently unavailable from the main airlink site, as they only host updates to the firmware. I've built the original untouched firmware images and I'm hosting it [http://legionofdeathwing.com/ar670w/firmware/ here], where you may also find a slightly modified firmware image (1 line added in the xmldb) that enables the builtin telnet daemon that is bypassed in the normal release. Login:password is Alphanetworks:wrgn16a_airlink_ar670w

I have tested both these images via the http firmware upgrade (http://192.168.0.1/admin_upd.php) and verified that they work, but not the tftp equivalents. I make no guarantees that they'll work but I can't see why they wouldn't unless your hardware is somehow different.
=== Boot Log ===
{{{
U-Boot 1.1.3 (Oct  3 2007 - 16:02:26) Build 001

Board: RT2880 DRAM:  32 MB
	twe0 set to <NULL>
	toe0 set to <NULL>
	Set up sector start address BC400000
*** Warning - bad CRC, using default environment

============================================ 
ASIC -VerB/C (MAC to Phy Mode)
DRAM COMPONENT=128Mbits 
DRAM BUS=32BIT 
Total memory = 32Mbytes
Date:Oct  3 2007  Time:16:02:26
============================================ 

Eth0 (10/100-M)



Hit any key to stop autoboot:  0 
## Booting image at bc440000 ...
   Image Name:   7zip Linux Kernel
   Created:      1970-01-01   0:00:00 UTC
   Image Type:   MIPS Linux Kernel Image (lzma compressed)
   Data Size:    -1 Bytes = 4096 MB
   Load Address: 8a000000
   Entry Point:  8a000000
   Uncompressing Kernel Image with LZMA ... OK

Starting kernel ...


THIS IS ASIC - VERSION B
ramsize = 32 MBytes
rambase not set, set to default (0x08000000)
MEMORY DESCRIPTOR dump:
[0,8a21d2a0]: base<0a000000> size<02000000> type<Free RAM memory>

 The CPU feqenuce set to 266 MHz
CPU revision is: 0001906c
icache: sets:256, ways:4, linesz:16 ,total:16384, waybit:12, flags:0x0
dcache: sets:256, ways:4, linesz:16 ,total:16384, waybit:12, flags:0x0
i waysize = 4096, d waysize = 4096, i sets= 256, d sets=256
Primary instruction cache 16kB, physically tagged, 4-way, linesize 16 bytes.
Primary data cache 16kB, 4-way, linesize 16 bytes.
[setup_scache]:1032
Linux version 2.4.30 (joanw@enzo) (gcc version 3.3.5) #1 Fri Jan 25 18:25:27 CST 2008
Determined physical RAM map:
 memory: 02000000 @ 0a000000 (usable)
On node 0 totalpages: 49152
zone(0): 49152 pages.
zone(1): 0 pages.
zone(2): 0 pages.
Kernel command line: console=ttyS1,57600n8 root=/dev/mtdblock1 noinitrd
cause = f080822c, status = 1000be00
calculating r4koff... 002896a0(2660000)
CPU frequency 266.00 MHz
Using 133.000 MHz high precision timer.
Calibrating delay loop... 265.42 BogoMIPS
Memory: 28472k/32768k available (1678k kernel code, 4296k reserved, 100k data, 76k init, 0k highmem)
Dentry cache hash table entries: 32768 (order: 6, 262144 bytes)
Inode cache hash table entries: 16384 (order: 5, 131072 bytes)
Mount cache hash table entries: 512 (order: 0, 4096 bytes)
Buffer cache hash table entries: 16384 (order: 4, 65536 bytes)
Page-cache hash table entries: 65536 (order: 6, 262144 bytes)
Checking for 'wait' instruction...  unavailable.
POSIX conformance testing by UNIFIX
Linux NET4.0 for Linux 2.4
Based upon Swansea University Computer Society NET3.039
Initializing RT netlink socket
Starting kswapd
devfs: v1.12c (20020818) Richard Gooch (rgooch@atnf.csiro.au)
devfs: boot_options: 0x1
squashfs: version 3.1 (2006/08/19) Phillip Lougher
pty: 256 Unix98 ptys configured
Ralink RT2880 gpio driver initialized
Serial driver version 5.05c (2001-07-08) with no serial options enabled
ttyS00 at 0x300500 (irq = 9) is a 16550A
ttyS01 at 0x300c00 (irq = 8) is a 16550A
HDLC line discipline: version $Revision: 1.1.1.1 $, maxframe=4096
N_HDLC line discipline registered.
RA2880 Ethernet Driver Initilization. v1.01  128 rx/tx descriptors allocated!
PPP generic driver version 2.4.2
FLASH_API: MAN_ID=1 DEV_ID=22F9 SIZE=4MB
 Amd/Fujitsu Extended Query Table v1.1 at 0x0040
number of CFI chips: 1
cfi_cmdset_0002: Disabling fast programming due to code brokenness.
Flash device: 0x400000 at 0xbc400000
ELBOX Physically mapped flash: squashfs filesystem found at block 896
Creating 8 MTD partitions on "ELBOX Physically mapped flash":
0x000e0020-0x002cc020 : "rootfs"
0x00040000-0x003e0000 : "upgrade"
0x003f0000-0x00400000 : "rgdb"
0x00030000-0x00040000 : "bdcfg"
0x003e0000-0x003f0000 : "langpack"
0x00000000-0x00400000 : "flash"
0x00000000-0x00030000 : "Boot"
0x00030000-0x00032000 : "Boot Config"
NET4: Linux TCP/IP 1.0 for NET4.0
IP Protocols: ICMP, UDP, TCP, IGMP
Register ARP FLOOD sysctl entry successes!
IP: routing cache hash table of 2048 buckets, 16Kbytes
TCP: Hash tables configured (established 16384 bind 32768)
Linux IP multicast router 0.06 plus PIM-SM
ip_conntrack version 2.1 (1536 buckets, 12288 max) - 308 bytes per conntrack
ip_tables: (C) 2000-2002 Netfilter core team
ipt_time loading
NET4: Unix domain sockets 1.0/SMP for Linux NET4.0.
NET4: Ethernet Bridge 008 for NET4.0
Register Bridge port access successes!
802.1Q VLAN Support v1.8 Ben Greear <greearb@candelatech.com>
All bugs added by David S. Miller <davem@redhat.com>
Load RT2880 Timer Module(Wdg/Soft)
VFS: Mounted root (squashfs filesystem) readonly.
Mounted devfs on /dev
Freeing prom memory: 0kb freed
Freeing unused kernel memory: 76k freed
console started
trying to start /sbin/init
init started:  BusyBox v1.00 (2008.01.25-10:28+0000) multi-call binary
Starting pid 10, console /dev/tts/1: '/etc/init.d/rcS'
Algorithmics/MIPS FPU Emulator v1.5
[/etc/init.d/S03config.sh]
Mounting proc and var ...
Start xmldb ...
[/etc/scripts/misc/profile.sh] get ...
[/etc/scripts/misc/defnodes.sh] ...
[/etc/defnodes/S10setext.sh] ...
PHP [/etc/defnodes/S11setnodes.php] ...
PHP [/etc/defnodes/S12features.php] ...
PHP [/etc/defnodes/S13flashspeed.php] ...
PHP [/etc/defnodes/S20setnodes.php] ...
cat: /etc/config/langpack: No such file or directory
mount: 
Cannot read /etc/fstab: No such file or directory
PHP [/etc/defnodes/S40brand.php] ...
[/etc/scripts/misc/defnodes.sh] Done !!
[/etc/templates/timezone.sh] ...
[/etc/templates/logs.sh] ...
[/var/run/logs_run.sh] ...
IC-Plus PHY Init...ok
GDMA1_FWD_CFG = 10000
rt2880_eth_setup: DSP_EN OFF version driver
Set name-type for VLAN subsystem. Should be visible in /proc/net/vlan/config
[/etc/templates/webs.sh] start ...
[/var/run/webs_start.sh] ...
Starting HTTPD ...
[/etc/init.d/S03config.sh] done!
[/etc/init.d/S10system.sh]
start fresetd ...
Factory reset time : 5 secs
System reset time  : 3 secs
WPS command : [/etc/templates/wps.sh pbc &]
start scheduled ...
[/etc/templates/scheduled.sh] start ...
setup layout ...
[/etc/scripts/layout.sh] start ...
[/var/run/layout_start.sh] ...
Start router layout ...
eth0.0: Setting MAC address to  00 1d 6a ca 60 63.
device eth0 entered promiscuous mode
VLAN (eth0.0):  Setting underlying device (eth0) to promiscious mode.
eth0.2: Setting MAC address to  00 1d 6a ca 60 64.
VLAN (eth0.2):  Underlying device (eth0) has same MAC, not checking promiscious mode.
eth0.0: dev_set_promiscuity(master, 1)
device eth0.0 entered promiscuous mode
br0: port 1(eth0.0) entering learning state
br0: port 1(eth0.0) entering forwarding state
br0: topology change detected, propagating
start LAN ...
[/etc/templates/lan.sh] ...
[/var/run/lan_start.sh] ...
Start LAN (br0/192.168.0.202/255.255.255.0)...
Start DHCP server (br0) ...
DHCP server is disabled!
Start igmp ...
[/etc/templates/igmpproxy.sh] start ...
[/var/run/igmpproxy_start.sh] ...
IGMP proxy is not enabled!
enable LAN ports ...
start WLAN ...
[/etc/templates/wlan.sh] start ...
Hello from hostapd.conf
[/var/run/wlan_start.sh] ...
Start WLAN interface ra0 ...
restart WLAN driver ...
interface ra0 does not exist!
Using /lib/modules/rt2860v2_ap.o
2860 version : v1.6.0.0_1109 (Alpha) (2007/12/25)
device ra0 entered promiscuous mode
ra0: attempt to add interface with same source address.
br0: port 2(ra0) entering learning state
br0: port 2(ra0) entering forwarding state
br0: topology change detected, propagating
br0: port 2(ra0) multicast bandwidth 900kbps
Configuration file: /var/run/hostapd.ra0.conf
Using interface ra0 with hwaddr 00:1d:6a:ca:60:63 and ssid 'D- Link a'
hostapd_setup_interface: return 0
usock_handler: recv return 9, got message[RADIO_ON]
usock_handler: unknown command [RADIO_ON]
[/etc/templates/wps.sh] setie ...
Start WLAN interface ra0 Done !!!
start Guest Zone
[/etc/templates/gzone.sh] ...
[/etc/templates/enable_gzone.sh] ...
start RG ...
[/etc/templates/rg.sh] start ...
[/var/run/rg_start.sh] ...
Using /lib/modules/sw_tcpip.o
REDSonic turbo net initialized
Using /lib/modules/ifresetcnt.o
Network interface reset count v1.0
Using /lib/modules/ipt_string.o
Using /lib/modules/ip_stun_func.o
Register STUN module successes!
sendto_unsock(/var/run/portt.unixsocket, flush)
start DNRD ...
[/etc/templates/dnrd.sh] ...
[/var/run/dnrd_start.sh] ...
Start DNRD ...
Notice: caching turned off
Start telnetd ...
start UPNPD ...
[/etc/templates/upnpd.sh] ...
[/var/run/upnpd_start.sh] ...
Starting UPnP ...
[/var/run/upnp_alive.sh] ...
start WAN ...
Set WAN port media type 0
[/etc/templates/wan.sh] start ...
[/var/run/wan_start.sh] ...
DHCP client on WAN(eth0.2) CloneMAC() ...
start LLD2D ...
[/etc/templates/lld2d.sh] ...
[/var/run/lld2d_start.sh] ...
Start LLD2 daemon ...
start igmpproxy ...
[/etc/templates/igmpproxy.sh] start ...
[/var/run/igmpproxy_stop.sh] ...
IGMP proxy is not started !
[/var/run/igmpproxy_start.sh] ...
IGMP proxy is not enabled!
[/etc/init.d/S10system.sh] done!
rcS done!
Starting pid 592, console /dev/tts/1: '/bin/sh'


BusyBox v1.00 (2008.01.25-10:28+0000) Built-in shell (msh)
Enter 'help' for a list of built-in commands.

#
}}}


=== U-Boot configuration ===
The U-Boot configuration, as extracted from mtdblock05:
{{{
dunno how to get this yet :S
}}}

=== /proc/interrupts: ===
{{{
           CPU0       
  3:        185       Surfboard  eth0
  4:       5356       Surfboard  ra0
  6:       9957       Surfboard  timer
  7:          0       Surfboard  rt2880_gpio
  8:        415       Surfboard  serial
 10:          0       Surfboard  rt2880_timer0

ERR:          0
}}}

=== /proc/cpuinfo: ===
{{{
system type		: Palmchip Surfboard
processor		: 0
cpu model		: unknown V6.12
BogoMIPS		: 265.42
wait instruction	: no
microsecond timers	: yes
tlb_entries		: 16
extra interrupt vector	: yes
hardware watchpoint	: no
VCED exceptions		: not available
VCEI exceptions		: not available
}}}

=== /proc/mtd: ===
{{{
mtd0: 00400000 00010000 "ELBOX Physically mapped flash"
mtd1: 001ec000 00010000 "rootfs"
mtd2: 003a0000 00010000 "upgrade"
mtd3: 00010000 00010000 "rgdb"
mtd4: 00010000 00010000 "bdcfg"
mtd5: 00010000 00010000 "langpack"
mtd6: 00400000 00010000 "flash"
mtd7: 00030000 00010000 "Boot"
mtd8: 00002000 00010000 "Boot Config"

}}}

----

CategoryModel
