=== Hardware ===
The RB532 is a router with three Fast Ethernetports, one supporting PoE, two MiniPci slots and a Compact Flash slot.
The board comes with a MIPS32 4Kc based 400MHz embedded processor.
For further information use this [http://www.routerboard.com/pdf/rb500r5ugP.pdf link].
=== Initial Installation ===
The following instructions are thought for use with CF cards!

For the Routerboard it is necessary to build your own images. Therefor you need to get the
development branch of OpenWRT Kamikaze and the related packages.
The next Steps describe how to get the Buildroot and how to build an image for the Routerboard.

* get the source
The source for the buildroot is in a svn repository.
See also [https://dev.openwrt.org/] and 
[http://forum.openwrt.org/viewtopic.php?pid=31794#p31794].
 {{{
 # svn co https://svn.openwrt.org/openwrt/trunk/
 # svn co https://svn.openwrt.org/openwrt/packages
}}}
After that you have 2 new directories, trunk and packages.

*make an image
{{{
 # cd <your path to the buildroot>/trunk
 # make menuconfig
}}}
Change target to rb5xx and all options you need or like to change. 
Include all needed drivers for example Kernel drivers -> kmod-madwifi built-in for the use of Atheros wifi-cards.

HINT: always try only one change in the config every time. That makes all debugging
steps more easy. 

Menuconfig is too much to explain here. To learn more about you should go through an maybe google for some of the options.

For the following steps stay in the trunk directory.
{{{
 # make V=99
}}}
...wait. The option V=99 gives all debugging output. Always use this.

If this step fails try svn up and do it again. If it still fails write a bug report or into the [http://forum.openwrt.org/index.php Forum].

* copy the image to a CF Card
If it worked you find your new image in trunk/bin. On default you get two jffs-images openwrt-rb532-2.6-jffs2-128k.bin and openwrt-rb532-2.6-jffs2-64k.bin.
This file-system is useful if you ever want to bring your image to the routerboard built-in nand flash and you have the advantage that filesystem survives if you pull the plug while the board is running.
128k is the default block-size of CF Cards so i would suggest the openwrt-rb532-2.6-jffs2-128k.bin image.
{{{
 # dd if=bin/openwrt-rb532-2.6-jffs2-128k.bin of=/dev/<cardreader>
}}}
and put the card to the board

* test it
Put the CF to the board.
Use the serial terminal of your choice with 38400 8N1.
If you use screen the line is:
{{{
 # screen /dev/<serial> 38400 8N1
}}}
Power it. First you get a little boot delay, so the first time
using a board you will have to be fast to interrupt the boot process
by pressing enter. 
This is what you see then:

{{{
 RouterBOOT-1.5
 What do you want to configure?
    d - boot delay
    k - boot key
    s - serial console
    o - boot device
    u - cpu mode
    f - try cpu frequency
    c - keep cpu frequency
    r - reset configuration
    g - upgrade firmware
    i - board info
    p - boot protocol
    t - do memory testing
    x - exit setup
 your choice:
}}}

Set the delay to about 5 seconds 
{{{
  your choice: d

Select boot delay:
 * 1 - 1s
   2 - 2s
   3 - 3s
   4 - 4s
   5 - 5s
   6 - 6s
   7 - 7s
   8 - 8s
   9 - 9s
your choice: 5
}}}
then set the boot device by choosing 'o' then 'c'.
{{{
your choice: c - boot from CF

RouterBOOT-1.5
What do you want to configure?
   d - boot delay
   k - boot key
   s - serial console
   o - boot device
   u - cpu mode
   f - try cpu frequency
   c - keep cpu frequency
   r - reset configuration
   g - upgrade firmware
   i - board info
   p - boot protocol
   t - do memory testing
   x - exit setup
your choice:
}}}
then press 'x' to continue booting.

If it boots correctly you can continue with configuring your OpenWRT as usual.
