The Scientific-Atlanta WebStar '''DPC2100''' is cable modem based on Broadcom BCM3349 chip. Ethernet and USB ports are provided. The modem is compatible with DOCSIS and EuroDOCSIS standards(?).

See ["BroadcomBCM33xxPort"] for general progress on porting to this SoC.

= Hardware =

 * Main Chip: Broadcom QAMLink® BCM3349KPB
 * Ram: 8 MB SDRAM (ISSI IS42S16400B-7T A0146600E 0445)
 * Flash: 2 MB (SPANSION S29AL016M)

== Pictures ==

 * http://usbjtag.net/jtagdevices/dpc2100.php

== Connectors ==

On back-side, in left-to-right order:

 * Power
 * RJ45
 * USB
 * Cable Coax

== Leds ==

In front panel. Green, unless otherwise stated. In left-to-right order:

 * PC
 * Cable
 * Send
 * Receive
 * Power

= Software =
By default, the DPC2100 comes with eCos, which is GPL

Luke's DPC2100 had a sticker on the flash chip labelled: SA-DPC2100 V2.0.2R1242

== Source Code ==

eCos is licensed under the GNU GPL. However, Scientific-Atlanta appears to have completely ignored the licensing terms, as there is no sign of the GPL text nor source code with this cable modem. The eCos maintainers and gpl-violations.org has been notified, and hopefully they will be able to extract the eCos source which can be used as a reference for Linux drivers.

== Firmware Images ==

{{{
2 bytes: signature
2 bytes: "Control" 00 05
2 bytes: Major Rev 00 03
2 bytes: ?? Minor Rev 00 00
4 bytes: ?? Build Time (big endian MOO-time-compat)
4 bytes (int32): File Length
4 bytes: Load Address 80 01 00 00
64 bytes: Filename (padded null)
2 bytes: HCS (Header checksum?) 06 49
2 bytes: 00 00
4 bytes: CRC
*Data*?
}}}

= Accessing DPC2100 =

== Opening the Case ==

Two annoying screws (not flatblade or phillips) under the front rubber feet (adhesively attached). Then you need to pull it apart a certain way...

== Serial Header ==

There is a 4-pin TTL-level serial header inside. However, the standard 4-pin CD-ROM cable does NOT fit it. Removing the header itself is a pain, so avoid it if possible.
The default baud rate is 115200.

== Ethernet Access ==

Standard firmware provides configuration interface using HTTP.

= Luke's DPC2100 =
== Boot log ==
{{{
BCM3349A0
100000010346890
MemSize: ......................... 8M
Flash detected @0xbe000000

Signature: 2100


Broadcom BootLoader Version: 2.1.6d release Gnu
Build Date: Apr 27 2004
Build Time: 22:22:16

Image 1 Program Header:
   Signature: 2100
     Control: 0005
   Major Rev: 0003
   Minor Rev: 0000
  Build Time: 2004/5/11 10:19:10 Z
 File Length: 753689 bytes
Load Address: 80010000
    Filename: ecram_sto.bin
         HCS: 0740
         CRC: 7b761252


Image 2 Program Header:
   Signature: 2100
     Control: 0005
   Major Rev: 0003
   Minor Rev: 0000
  Build Time: 2004/5/11 10:19:10 Z
 File Length: 753689 bytes
Load Address: 80010000
    Filename: ecram_sto.bin
         HCS: 0740
         CRC: 7b761252



Enter '1', '2', or 'p' within 2 seconds or take default...
. .

Performing CRC on Image 2...
Detected LZMA compressed image... decompressing...
Target Address: 0x80010000
...........
Decompressed length: 2883782

Executing Image 2...


 eCos - hal_diag_init
Init device '/dev/ttydiag'
Init tty channel: 802c50c8
Init device '/dev/tty0'
Init tty channel: 802c50e8
Init device '/dev/haldiag'
HAL/diag SERIAL init
Init device '/dev/ser0'
BCM 33XX SERIAL init - dev: fffe0300.2
Set output buffer - buf: 802f7248 len: 2048
Set input buffer - buf: 802f7a48 len: 2048
BCM 33XX SERIAL config

Reading Permanent settings from non-vol...
Checksum for permanent settings:  0xbd9d53a4
Settings were read and verified.


Reading Dynamic settings from non-vol...
Checksum for dynamic settings:  0x8e829f2e
}}}
At this point, the serial port goes silent.

----

CategoryModel CategoryCableModem CategoryBCM33xx
