[[TableOfContents]]

= Netgear FVG318 v1 =

The FVG318 is based on an Atheros [http://www.atheros.com/pt/AR5006AP-GS.htm AR5006AP (aka AR2316) SoC].
No idea if AtherosPort of OpenWRT supports it.

== Specs of FVG318 v1 ==
 * CPU: AR2316
 * Flash: ST 25P32V6P (SPI, 4 MByte)
 * RAM: Mosel-Vitelic V54C3128164VBI7 (8Mbit x 16)
 * Switch: 2x Marvell 88E6060
 * Ports: 8x LAN, 1x WAN
 * Antenna: 1, detachable, RP-SMA
 * FCC ID: PY305200007

You find [https://fjallfoss.fcc.gov/prod/oet/forms/blobs/retrieve.cgi?attachment_id=592352&native_or_pdf=pdf internal pictures] in the FCC database.

== Serial Port ==

The serial port is located on JP1:
 * Pin 1: Vcc (3.3V)
 * Pin 2: Rx
 * Pin 3: Tx
 * Pin 4: Ground

Speed is 9600.

== JTAG ==

J500 close to JP1 might be a [http://www.linux-mips.org/wiki/JTAG#JTAG_headers 14 pin standard EJTAG header] (not verified yet).

== Bootloader / OS ==

This unit runs VxWorks:
{{{
ar531xPlus rev 0x00000087 firmware startup...
WARNING: bootrom did not start the watchdog.
disable vlan -
tas

Atheros AR5315 default version 4.0.0.167

@$"
 1 
auto-booting...

Attaching to TFFS... done.
Loading /fl/apimg1...
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy
after fd= 4 file open
2693568
zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz
Starting at 0x806846e0...

WARNING: bootrom did not start the watchdog.
0x000000                                                    /fl/  - Volume is OK 
Reading Configuration File "/fl/apcfg".
Configuration file checksum: 4ca11 is good
in ae531xMacAddressGet, MACInfo->unit is 0
disable vlan 
muxDevLoad failed for index 2
muxDevLoad failed for index 3
apInit: no wlan device
AP initilization failed!
Attached TCP/IP interface to ae unit 0
Attaching interface lo0...done
Error setting inet address of ae0 to 192.168.0.1, errno = 0x11
ERROR: AP start-up failed!  Wireless network services disabled.

iGateway Initialization Started
 setbootline 
Error in IAPLstFtpLoad
Error in extnat add record 30467
WanMakeConnectionEx :: Wan Connection Type is: 2
WanMakeConnectionEx :: Wan Connection Type is: 2
WanMakeConnectionEx :: Wan Connection Type is: 2
WanMakeConnectionEx :: Wan Connection Type is: 2
Netgear modules configuration loaded 


*******************************************

       FVG318 Image version 1.0.48
BSP version: NEW 2.4
create time: 09:26:00, Jul. 13th, 2007


*******************************************
}}}

You may enter a '''Boot Menu''' by pressing ESC shortly after {{{Atheros AR5315 default version 4.0.0.167}}} is displayed. Press '''?''' for a summary of commands there:

{{{
ar531xPlus rev 0x00000087 firmware startup...
WARNING: bootrom did not start the watchdog.
disable vlan -
tas

Atheros AR5315 default version 4.0.0.167


 1
oot]: ^?

 ?                     - print this list
 @                     - boot (load and go)
 p                     - print boot params
 c                     - change boot params
 e                     - print fatal exception
 v                     - print version
 B                     - change board data
 S                     - show board data
 n netif               - print network interface device address
 $dev(0,procnum)host:/file h=# e=# b=# g=# u=usr [pw=passwd] f=# 
                           tn=targetname s=script o=other 
 boot device: tffs=drive,removable     file name: /tffs0/vxWorks 
 Boot flags:           
   0x02  - load local system symbols 
   0x04  - don't autoboot 
   0x08  - quick autoboot (no countdown) 
   0x20  - disable login security 
   0x40  - use bootp to get boot parameters
   0x80  - use tftp to get boot image 
   0x100 - use proxy arp 

available boot devices:Enhanced Network Devices
 ae0 tffs
}}}

Setting '''boot flag''' to 0x20 helped me to recover a device where the firmware 2.1.12.40 (Europe version)
crashed with
{{{
WARNING: bootrom did not start the watchdog.

boardData checksum failed!
/fl/  - Volume is OK 
disable vlan 
ae0 loaded
ae1 loaded
Attached TCP/IP interface to ae unit 0
Attaching interface lo0...done
Error setting inet address of ae0 to 192.168.1.20, errno = 0x11

Adding 13187 symbols for standalone.
Initializing platform components...

Breakpoint Exception
Caused by an Integer Divide by Zero
Exception Program Counter: 0x800197ec
Status Register: 0x10009401
Cause Register: 0x10800024
Task: 0x80fffdf0 "tRootTask"^G
-> help
}}}

== OpenWRT on the Device ==

I don't know if we can boot OpenWRT via tftp as described for the [:OpenWrtDocs/Hardware/Netgear/WGT624:Netgear WGT624].
