'''Netgear WG602 v3'''

The WG602 v3 is based on the Broadcom 4712 board. It has a 200MHz CPU, 2Mb flash and 8Mb RAM, and a detachable antenna.

 * Flash: Intel TE 28F160C3 BDBD70 ([http://download.intel.com/design/flcomp/datashts/29064523.pdf datasheet], [http://download.intel.com/design/flcomp/specupdt/29793814.pdf update]): 16 Mbit

 * RAM: !EtronTech EM638425TS-6 ([http://etron.com/img/pdf/SDRAM/64Mb/2Mx32/Em638325(Rev%200.8).pdf datasheet]): 64Mbit (2M x 32) 6 ns (166 MHz) SDRAM

It has a populated UART1 connector, and un-populated UART0 and JTAG.The wireless NIC is integrated on the board. Does not appear to use boot wait. Instead the following procedure worked for recovering a dead unit and may be useful in putting new firmware on the unit:

== Recovery procedure ==
How to upload a firmware via TFTP:

 1. Download the latest firmware from Netgear. Currently (1/4/2006) it is version [ftp://downloads.netgear.com/files/wg602v3_v1_0_5.zip 1.0.5]. Unzip it.

 1. Reboot the wg602v3: power off the device and power on while depressing the reset button for 5 seconds.

 1. tftp to the box; set binary mode; and upload the firmare file as `image.idts334` . You have a very limited time to do this, so it may actually work better to first issue the tftp command, and then reboot the wg602v3.

 1. If the upload is successful, the wg602v3 will program the flash and load the new firmware.

Eg. (linux)

 {{{ $ tftp -m binary -c put wg602v3-V1.0.5.trx image.idts334
Sent 1585152 bytes in 5.2 seconds }}}

Eg. (windows)

 {{{ C:\...\> tftp -i 192.168.0.227 put wg602v3-V1.0.5.trx image.idts334
Transfer successful: 1585152 bytes in 10 seconds, 158515 bytes/s }}}

----
 . CategoryModel    
