'''Netgear WG602 v1'''

The original version of the WG602 (sometimes known as the v1) is based on an IDT design running OpenRG. It has a 150MHz CPU, 4MB flash and 16MB RAM. The wireless NIC is a PrismGT miniPCI card. At this time, I cannot get OpenWRT to run on it. 

= Official Netgear information =
http://kbserver.netgear.com/products/WG602v1.asp
The current version of the official Netgear firmware at time of writing is [ftp://downloads.netgear.com/files/wg602_v1715.zip 1.7.15] available from [http://kbserver.netgear.com/support_details.asp?dnldID=741 Netgear's download pages].
Previous versions had a telnet interface, but this was removed for security reasons. Portscanning with nmap reveals that the current version has only a web-based UI, and an ftp server (vsftpd) which gives access to the entire OpenRG FS, however many files are not viewable, and none seem writable. I'm currently not sure of the purpose of this ftp service, certainly it does not *appear* to offer any facility for uploading custom firmware versions.

= Recovery procedure =
What to do if you brick it!

 1. Set up a computer with the ip address 192.168.1.98/24.
 2. Install and configure a tftp server.
 3. Copy the latest firmware from Netgear to the file 'image.idts334' in your tftp server's root.
 4. Remove power, hold in the reset button, and reapply power while still holding the reset button.
 5. The WG602 should, using an IP address of 192.168.1.69/24, retrieve the firmware image from your tftp server. You can watch this activity with tcpdump or Ethereal.
{{{
ip address add 192.168.1.98/24 eth0
yum install tftp-server
chkconfig tftp on
wget ftp://downloads.netgear.com/files/wg602_v1715.zip
unzip wg602_v1715.zip
cp WG602_V1715.img /tftpboot/image.idts334
tcpdump -i eth0 -v
}}}

Note that this procedure does not appear to work without some header information in the image.idts334 file, I've been trying to put the precompiled OpenWrt .trx firmware images onto the device without succes. I've tried, in a spririt of newbie-ish experimentation/optimism, copying various lengths of the header from an official firmware to a WhiteRussian release of OpenWrt, which has at least been written to flash, but predictably made a brick of my WG602 (as detailed above, it's easily recoverable)

More information can be found at [http://www.seattlewireless.net/NetgearWG602 Seattle Wireless] and [http://216.218.185.154/cgi-bin/board/UltraBoard.pl?Action=ShowPost&Board=general&Post=198 Embedded Linux forum]
----
CategoryModel
