= Netgear WGR614 v8 =
the WGR614 v8 is based on an Atheros System on a Chip (Soc). It has an ??? MIPS processor. There is an ongoing process porting OpenWRT to this chip: AtherosPort

== Hardware Versions ==

there appear to be multiple versions of several Netgear routers. the one described on this page is the following:

{{{
Hardware Version  	V8
Firmware Version 	V1.0.17_1.0.17NA
}}}

This information can be found at the top of the 'router status page' in the web interface.

== Telnet Hack == 

the telnet hack does not appear to work on this device.

== De-Bricking ==

while i havent managed to de-brick a device, i can tell you this much.

to get a device that is bricked to generate a single arp broadcast, hold down the reset button and let it boot.

at first, you will get green lights on all the network ports (and the wan port), and a green power light.
then, it will switch to yellow lights on power, diag, and the lan/wan ports.
after that, it will drop the lights on the lan/wan ports.
if at that exact moment you release the reset button, the power light will flash, and it will arp once out the lan ports.
if you miss that moment, the lan port you're connected to will light up, and the power light will turn green. (diag is still yellow)
then the lan port will go out, and the power light will stay green. (diag is still yellow)
then the lan port will light up green again. release the reset button just long enough for the power light to turn yellow, then tap the reset button again.
