The Thomson '''TCM390''' is a cable modem based on Broadcom BCM3348 chip. It has no wireless capabilities, and provides just USB slave and Ethernet connectivity.
It is compatible with DOCSIS and EuroDOCSIS standards.

= Hardware description =
Opening the box is very easy, just two screws and no clip to pop nor seal to break. 
The board is labelled ACM6048EB rev 1.02, with CE and FCC logos and "made in Taiwan" mention.

 *Main Chip : Broadcom QAMLink® BCM3348KPB w/ 24MHz quartz, which may indicate 192MHz or 240MHz operation
 *RAM : 8MB SDRAM (Nanya [http://www.nanya.com/e-htm/page3/data/NT5SV4M16DT.pdf NT5SV4M16DT-6K])
 *Flash : 4MB (AMD/Spansion [http://www.spansion.com/products/Am29DL323G.html AM29DL323GB-90EI])
 *Cable Tuner : Broadcom BCM3415KQTE (with a heatsink)

The board has several pin headers soldered, and two of them ar labelled as UART on the silkscreen.

 *J-UART has 4 pins : pin 1 = Vcc(3V3), pin2 = Tx, pin3 = Rx, pin4 = GND
 *JP-UART2 has 4 pins : pin 1 = Rx, pin2 = Tx, pin3 = GND, pin4 = Vcc(3V3)
 *J22 has 8 pins, unknown usage.
 *J201 has 10 pins, and may be a JTAG connector (with all even-numbered pins tied to GND). According to http://lauterbach.com/admips3.gif and an ohmmeter, we can suppose pin1 = /TRST, pin3 = TDI, pin5 = TDO, pin7 = TMS, pin9 = TCK and all others are GND.
 *J1 has 2 pins, unknown usage. Looks like a jumper header, but both pins show 0V on the voltmeter.

A second Flash footprint (TSOP48) linked to the used one is available, and according to the BCM3348 product brief (the only publicly-available documentation of this chip) the EBI bus which hosts the Flash is PCMCIA compatible. Therefore, an hardware hack may consist of hooking peripherals on this bus.

= Serial access =
At bootup, a serial console (115200 baud, 8N1 Ansi) connected to UART1 connector thru a MAX232 interface, shows the following messages : 
{{{Detected CPU .............. BCM3348A1
Ebi Initialized .....................000002020000001C
Sdram Initialized....................
Icache Size: ....................2000
Icache Linesize:.................0010
Dcache Size: ....................2000
Dcache Linesize:.................0010
Sdram access OK......................
Compressed Bootloader detected.......
ImageCSize: ...................00609C
ImageLoc: ...................81F80000
Decompression Status: .......00000000
Dcompressed Image Size:......00010765
BSS Initialized......................
TMP Stack initialized................
Perm Stack initialized...............
MemSize: ......................... 8M
Flash detected @0xbe000000

Signature: a801


Broadcom BootLoader Version: 2.1.4c
Build Date: Sep 26 2002
Build Time: 17:16:22

Image 1 Program Header:
   Signature: a801
     Control: 0004
   Major Rev: 0002
   Minor Rev: 0000
  Build Time: 2003/3/20 22:04:04 Z
 File Length: 1358978 bytes
Load Address: 80010000
    Filename: vxram_sto.bin
         HCS: 92fc
         CRC: deb956d2


Image 2 Program Header:
   Signature: a801
     Control: 0004
   Major Rev: 0002
   Minor Rev: 0000
  Build Time: 2003/3/20 22:04:04 Z
 File Length: 1358978 bytes
Load Address: 80010000
    Filename: vxram_sto.bin
         HCS: 92fc
         CRC: deb956d2



Enter '1', '2', or 'p' within 2 seconds or take default...
. .

Performing CRC on Image 2...
Detected NRV2D99 compressed image... decompressing...
Target Address: 0xA0010000
Decompressed length: 4463656

Executing Image 2...



3348
}}}

Obviously, the two images in Flash are the same : identical CRC, size and buil time.
Entering '1', '2', or 'p' within 2 seconds seems to have no action.

UART2 seems to be directly connected to UART1, as it delivers the same bootup messages and ohmmeter test shows pin-to-pin connection. It may just be a different pinout for the same signals.

= Ethernet Access =
An nmap port scan shows a web server listening on 192.168.27.43 port 80.
{{{$ nmap 192.168.27.43
Starting nmap 3.81 ( http://www.insecure.org/nmap/ )
Interesting ports on 192.168.27.43:
(The 1660 ports scanned but not shown below are in state: filtered)
PORT    STATE  SERVICE
80/tcp  open   http
113/tcp closed auth
554/tcp open   rtsp

Nmap finished: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 30.065 seconds}}}
but direct acces to this address gets "forbidden" http error.
{{{Forbidden
You don't have permission to access this file on this server.
Cheyenne/2.0.36 Server at localhost Port 80}}}
