== Hardware Info ==
 * The WA840Gv1 (grey case) has 1 torx-screw and five (quite tight) clips that hold the case together.
 * Instructions on [:OpenWrtDocs/Hardware/Motorola/WR850G: WR850G] do help with opening those.
 * a pinout labeled J25, which might be a serial port, is present on the device, you need to attach a header yourself
 * Judging from the connections this header (2x10) has, no onboard UART is present. You probably need an Interface as described for the [:OpenWrtDocs/Hardware/Motorola/WR850G: WR850Gv1]
 * Two Dunachips D98SD64 16AH-6 (flash chip?) one visible on the back of the circuit-board, one below the miniPCI card. This would be 2x16MBit=4MB flash.
 * The springs that keep the minipci card in place are soldered to the card to prevent removal. The card itself is a BCM94306MP rev 4, all other components are hidden beneath it.

I suspect the WA840G is just the same hardware as WE800G, but radio is in AP mode.

To get the OpenWRT going on that box follow the [:OpenWrtDocs/Hardware/Motorola/WE800G: WE800G] instructions.

Just use openwrt-wa840g-<type>.bin firmware images.

Note: The WA840G IP address after the update is 192.168.10.1/24.

== Making images ==
It's necessary to modify the image builder (the one in the source distribution, not ImageBuilder) to make a usable image for the WA840G.

Modify motorola-bin.c in {OpenWRT path}/target/utils/src/ by changing line 95 to "firmware->flags = ntohl(0x10577040);"(find the 5 in the number and change it to a 4).

Then go back to the OpenWRT path and run make after configuring the packages.

Thanks to Brittany Benzaia for figuring this out!

CategoryModel
