||<tablewidth="313px" tablestyle="WIDTH: 313px; HEIGHT: 115px"> http://www.compex.com.sg/home/images/logo3.gif ||'''''COMPEX ''''''''WP54-6E '''''''''' ''' ''''''' ''''''(New Version) ||
|| || ||
|| || ||
----
''__(This page is at an early stage of development. Please feel free to update) __''

The Compex WP54 is a small, well-made device with two Ethernet ports and Atheros wireless that support both, Compex firmware and Open-WRT Firmware.

There are several different versions are available for WP54 and only 2 type of WP54 is supporting Open-WRT. It is ''WP54-6B''' and'''WP54-6E''''' ''(New Version)''. '''''Support '''Open-'''WP54-6B''

__Compex WP54 ''That ''WRT.__

 * ''''''' = more likely same as WP54-1B board, but this board with ROHS standard is support Open-WRT. '''
 * ''WP54-6E''''' = The Latest WP54 Model That support Open-WRT run in IEEE802.3af standard PoE and Compex PoE Plus. It is also [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ROHS ROHS] standard. This model support both Compex and Open-WRT Firmware. '''
__Compex WP54 THAT ''DO NOT'' SUPPORT''' Open-WRT (Normal function).'''__

 * WP54 1A = Standard Wireless device that able to run in 7Modes(AP,Client, P to P, Gateway, P to multiple P,WL Routing Client and WL Adapter)
 * WP54 1B = can be powered either by 5V DC Supply or 802.3af PoE, using a jumper selection available on the board.
 * WP54 1C = Wireless Device that support [http://wiki.openwrt.org/AccessPoint Access Point] Mode and Client mode only.
 * WP54 1D = can be powered either via a separate 24V DC PSU or a proprietary 24V DC PoE injector or real 802.3af PoE.
 * WP54 6D = It is [http://wiki.openwrt.org/applets/FCKeditor/editor/http:/en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ROHS ROHS] Standard and able to run in IEEE802.3af standard PoE and Compex PoE Plus.
''Compex for developer'''''
||<tablewidth="861px" tablestyle="WIDTH: 861px; HEIGHT: 126px">Purpose '''''' ||''WHY IS DEVELOPMENT KIT USEFUL?''' ''''' ||
||Develop Open-WRT on WP54 ||Serial Converter can be used to debug the Open-WRT firmware. ||
||Port Own Firmware Over to WP54 ||Serial Converter can be used to debug the Serial Output messages. ||
||Port Own Firmware and Loader Over to WP54 ||JTAG Programmer can be used to load in your loader. ||
'''OpenWRT Packets Information'''
||<tablewidth="861px" tablestyle="WIDTH: 861px; HEIGHT: 175px">''CODE'''''' '''''''' ||''CONTENTS''''' ''' ||
||''''P-C5 OEMWP546E''' '''' ''' ||• WP54 6E Bare-board (Pre-Loaded with Compex Firmware) ||
||WP54AG 6E DEV KIT''''' ''''' ||• WP54 6E Bareboard (Pre-loaded with Compex Firmware) • Wireless AG mini-PCI (Compex WLM54AG) • PoE+ Injector (Compex PoE+1A4815) • JTAG Programmer (Cable from PC to JTAG Programmer included) • Serial Converter (Cable from PC to Serial Converter included) • 24V DC Power Supply ||
''''''''''''
||<tablewidth="840px" tablestyle="WIDTH: 840px; HEIGHT: 169px">''Other useful Information about Compex __Open-WRT__ Bareboard Packages''''' ''' ||
'''Related Link''''' '''''





[http://compex.com.sg/home/OEM/Downloads/OpenWRT_WP54_6E_Bareboard_DSv2.7.pdf Datasheet]''(updated)'' = Provide Technical Specification and Ordering Information.

[http://compex.com.sg/home/OEM/Downloads/WP54_Board_Product_Manual_Rev1.4.pdf Hardware Manual]''(updated)'' = its provide information about hardware. GPIO bit mapping, Serial Port, Serial Console Setting, Jtag Port, Power Supply Jumper Setting.

[http://compex.com.sg/home/OEM/Open_wrt.htm Compex ]with OpenWRT Solution is always available from this link.
