[[TableOfContents]]
= Viewsonic WR-100 =
the WR-100 is based on a Broadcom BCM4712 CPU at 200 MHz.  As such it can use a nearly-stock OpenWRT build.

The biggest problem with this AP is that it is limited to 8MB ram, which requires a minimal build.

== JTAG ==

The AP ships with boot_wait disabled, so you have to install a JTAG header or use the Bacardi solution: http://forum.openwrt.org/viewtopic.php?pid=16731#p16731 .

It also appears to have an unpopulated serial header.

You have to read the NVRAM, and then modify the file to turn boot_wait on.  I used sed:

cat NVRAM.BIN.xxx | sed -e s/boot_wait=off/boot_wait=on/ > NVRAM.BIN.changed

and then used hexedit to add a FF to the very end of the file to keep the length correct.

Flash the modified NVRAM.BIN back to the router.

== Prepare the image ==

The stock images won't boot.  Based on the bacardi post, I assume it has to do with the diag module.  So download the toolchain (see [http://wiki.openwrt.org/Faq#head-2cc945e46ed242ed9339fbf6ca640a272865f969] ).

Once you have the buildroot installed, use make menuconfig and deselect httpd from the busybox config, diag from the kernel config, and webif from the openwrt packages config.

BIG FAT WARNING:  If you leave the webif in, most likely your image won't boot because it will be too big for the limited RAM in this AP.

Start the toolchain building; the first time it will take some hours to complete.

At the end you should have trx files in ./bin.

== Transfer the image to the AP ==

Now you can transfer the files using the standard tftp method.  You won't have a web interface, but you should be able to access your AP via telnet and ssh.

Enjoy!

----
 . CategoryModel 
