The Arris '''TM602G''' is cable modem based on ??? chip. Ethernet, USB, and RJ11 phone ports are provided. The modem is compatible with DOCSIS and (?)EuroDOCSIS standards.

= Hardware =

 * Main Chip: Puma-4
 * Ram: 32 MB SDRAM
 * Flash: ?? MB

== Connectors ==

On back-side, in top-down order:

 * RJ11
 * RJ11
 * RJ45
 * USB
 * Cable Coax
 * Power

== Leds ==

In front panel. Green, unless otherwise stated. In top-down order:

 * Power
 * DS
 * US
 * Online
 * Link
 * Telephone 1
 * Telephone 2
 * Battery

= Software =
Unknown

= Accessing =

== Opening the Case ==

Four philips' screws, one under a Warranty Label (under a foot).

== Ethernet Access ==

Unknown

== Serial Header ==

There is a 4-pin TTL-level serial header inside. The default baud rate is 9600.


= Luke's =

http://dashjr.org/gallery/v/tech/tm602g/

== Serial Output ==

{{{
UART Initialized
BOOTCR:     0x01b80911
Reset Type: 0x00000000 (Hardware) ***OR*** Reset Type: 0x00000002 (Watchdog)
Chip CVR:   0x00100304 (Puma4 1.0)
SDRAM Size: 0x02000000
TESTING SDRAM
.+.+.+
SDRAM IS GOOD


ARRIS Image Starter v06.03
ARRIS, Inc. (C) 2001 - 2006


Trying Flash Table A...GOOD

Unzipping DOCSIS
Computing CRC on zip image...GOOD
Decompressing Load (LZMA).........................................GOOD
Computing CRC on SDRAM image...GOOD

Unzipping Application
Computing CRC on zip image...GOOD
Decompressing Load (LZMA)......................................GOOD
Computing CRC on SDRAM image...GOOD

DOCSIS load...GOOD
App load......GOOD

Running DOCSIS...


PSAVE_init: copied 36 instructions to internal sram
PSAVE_init: PDCR = 0x1b000110
PSAVE_init: PRCR = 0x0000004e
Installed MIPS exception handler
PSAVE_init: copied 36 instructions to internal sram

PSAVE_init: PDCR = 0x1b000110

PSAVE_init:
CPU is Puma-4: MIPS core speed is 212500000 Hz (200 Ticks Per Second)




                           `!MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM::~
                               ``!MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM!:~` ~
                                    !MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM!:`     :~~
                                     :MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM!~        :~~~~
                                   .:MMMMMMMMMM!:~           ~~~~~~
                              ..:MMMMMMM!:~`             :~~~~~~~
                         .:MMMMMM:~`                ::~~~~~~~~~
                    .:MMMMM:~                    .!!!!!!: ~~~~
              ..:MMM:~`                         .!!!!`      ~
        ..:MM:~`                                !!`
   .:M:~`


        AA              RRRRRRR          RRRRRRR          III         SSSSS
       AAAA             RRRRRRRRR        RRRRRRRRR        III       SSSSSSSSS
      AAAAAA            RRR    RRR       RRR    RRR       III      SSS    SS
     AAA  AAA           RRR   RRRR       RRR   RRRR       III       SSSS
    AAA    AAA          RRRRRRRRR        RRRRRRRRR        III         SSSSSS
   AAAAAAAAAAAA         RRR  RRR         RRR  RRR         III            SSSS
  AAA        AAA        RRR   RRR        RRR   RRR        III       SS    SSS
 AA            AA       RRR    RRR       RRR    RRR       III      SSSSSSSSS
A                A      RRR       R      RRR       R      III        SSSSS





======================= Load Info =======================
Built On:       Thu Nov 29 17:03:00 EST 2007
Built By:       ccbuild
Build View:     TS050237C_112907A
Build System:   SunOS hackett sun4u
Build Name:     TS050
}}}

== Chips ==
{{{
	TM602G
	V5.2.31
NAM???
NT5DS16M16OS | nt5ds16m16cgs

Legerity
Le88246DLC
J E G
0802HBJ
(C) 2006

(image of Texas with an 'i')
TNETC4710ZDW
B1AH19W
EI (underlined)

	TM602
	V 5.2.31  A3
	MX2421 (X in pen over this)
MX 108012N
29LV320C910-922 |         BTC-9097
Z 129100A1
TAIWAN
}}}

----

CategoryModel CategoryCableModem
